Add a blog post about the current state of Flink on Docker (#370)
apache/flink-web: _posts/2020-08-20-flink-docker.md

---
layout: post
title: "The State of Flink on Docker"
date: 2020-08-08T00:00:00.000Z
authors:
- rmetzger:
  name: "Robert Metzger"
  twitter: rmetzger_
categories: news

excerpt: This blog post gives an update on the recent developments of Flink's support for Docker.
---

> The Flink community recently put some effort into upgrading the Docker experience for our users. The goal was to reduce confusion and improve usability. With over 50 million downloads from Docker Hub, the Flink docker images are a very popular deployment option.

Reviewer: quick drive-by suggestion

```suggestion
With over 50 million downloads from Docker Hub, the Flink docker images are a very popular deployment option.
The Flink community recently put some effort into upgrading the Docker experience for our users with the goal to reduce confusion and improve usability.
```

> The Flink community recently put some effort into upgrading the Docker experience for our users. The goal was to reduce confusion and improve usability. With over 50 million downloads from Docker Hub, the Flink docker images are a very popular deployment option.

Reviewer 2: nit:
I am not a native speaker.
`upgrading experience` sounds somewhat strange for me,
maybe because I've encountered only `improving experience` so far

Author: Damn, me trying to sound eloquent often fires back :)

Author: Seth didn't correct the word in his review

Author: ... elevating the Docker experience to a new level ... ?

Author: okay, I'll use "improve"

Let's quickly break down the recent improvements:

- Reduce confusion: Flink used to have 2 Dockerfiles and a 3rd file maintained outside of the official repository — all with different features and varying stability. Now, we have one central place for all images: [apache/flink-docker](https://github.com/apache/flink-docker).

  Here, we keep all the Dockerfiles for the different releases. Check out the [detailed readme](https://github.com/apache/flink-docker/blob/master/README.md) of that repository for further explanation on the different branches, as well as the [Flink Improvement Proposal (FLIP-111)](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-111%3A+Docker+image+unification) that contains the detailed planning.

>   The apache/flink-docker repository also seeds the o[fficial Flink image on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/flink).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The `apache/flink-docker` repository also seeds the [official Flink image on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/flink).
```

Reviewer 2: or some other highlighting for `apache/flink-docker`

- Improve Usability: The Dockerfiles are used for various purposes: [Native docker deployments](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-master/ops/deployment/docker.html), [Flink on Kubernetes](https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-master/ops/deployment/native_kubernetes.html), the (unofficial) [Flink helm example](https://github.com/docker-flink/examples) and the project's [internal end to end tests](https://github.com/apache/flink/tree/master/flink-end-to-end-tests). With one unified image, all these consumers of the images benefit from the same set of features, documentation and testing. 

>   The new images support passing configuration variables via a `FLINK_PROPERTIES` environment variable. Users can enable default plugins with the `ENABLE_BUILT_IN_PLUGINS`environment variable. The images also allow loading custom jar paths and configuration files.

Reviewer 2: It may be helpful to turn the phrases for key features into links to the corresponding doc chapters (e.g. FLINK_PROPERTIES, ENABLE_BUILT_IN_PLUGINS, custom jar paths and configuration files). I know we already have a general link but I believe more links do not hurt.

Looking into the future, there are already some interesting potential improvements lined up: 

- [Java 11 Docker images](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-16260) (already completed)
- [Use vanilla docker-entrypoint with flink-kubernetes](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-15793) (in progress)
- [History server support](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-17167)
- [Support for OpenShift](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-15587)

## How do I get started?

> This is a short tutorial on how to start a Flink Session Cluster with docker.

Reviewer 2: again I would either make `a Flink Session Cluster with docker` clickable into the docs or add `see also details in docs link`.

```
FLINK_PROPERTIES="jobmanager.rpc.address: jobmanager"
docker network create flink-network
```

Then we launch the JobManager:

```
docker run \
       --rm \
       --name=jobmanager \
       --network flink-network \
       -p 8081:8081 \
       --env FLINK_PROPERTIES="${FLINK_PROPERTIES}" \
       flink:1.11.1 jobmanager
```
and one or more *TaskManager* containers:

```
docker run \
      --rm \
      --name=taskmanager \
      --network flink-network \
      --env FLINK_PROPERTIES="${FLINK_PROPERTIES}" \
      flink:1.11.1 taskmanager
```

You now have a fully functional Flink cluster running! You can access the the web front end here: [localhost:8081](http://localhost:8081/).

Let's now submit one of Flink's example jobs:

```bash
# 1: (optional) Download the Flink distribution, and unpack it
wget https://archive.apache.org/dist/flink/flink-1.11.1/flink-1.11.1-bin-scala_2.12.tgz
tar xf flink-1.11.1-bin-scala_2.12.tgz
cd flink-1.11.1

# 2: Start the Flink job
./bin/flink run ./examples/streaming/TopSpeedWindowing.jar
```

<center>
<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/blog/flink-docker/flink-docker.gif" width="882px" height="730px" alt="Demo video"/>
</center>

> 

Reviewer 2: I would also briefly mention that one could also use docs link to deploy the job mode, just to denote that it is also possible and we envisioned it.
